# Quick Introduction to Ansible

## Why Ansible?

Ansible is a _configuration management tool_. We describe the state of our servers and then use ansible tool to apply the state(s) on the servers.  For example, we specify the states of a postgres database server and apply all such states to all the servers that are running postgres services. 

Ansible can also be used for _deployment_ as well.  When an move in-house assets on to target servers, prepare the environment and launch these assets.  Ansible also works with Terraform and Cloud Providers to instrument infrastructure.

## How Ansible works?

As a best practice we define the state of the server in a `playbook`. This playbook consists of set to tasks. For example: install http server, specify http configuration, start the service, and enable to auto-start when machine reboots.  These tasks are defined in a `yaml` format.  

Example of a playbook 

```
---
- hosts: webservers
  become: yes
  tasks:
    - name: install haproxy
      apt:
        name: haproxy
        state: latest
```

To apply this playbook

```
$ ansible-playbook install-webserver.yaml
```

Ansible will do the following:

1. Generates a python script that installs the haproxy
2. Copies the script to target servers
3. Execute the script on target servers
4. Wait for the script to complete execution on all the servers
5. Ansible runs each task in parallel across all servers
6. Ansible will wait for all hosts to have completed a task before moving to the next task.
7. Tasks are executed in the order we specify in the yaml file.

Note that __Ansible is push based__.  There is ansible-pull module avaiable to make ansible pull based. 



